# IoT-Light-Dimming-Project-2018-2019
Over the summer of 2018, I decided to develop an IoT concept with the capability of controlling the brightness and status of LED lightbulbs over the Google Cloud. The project was split into 3 stages:
1) Electronic Development: Developing the hardware systems. This includes an Arduino microcontroller responsible for interpretting instructions for light control and an AC Light Dimmer and Zero-cross detector module using PWM functionality to control the amount of AC current supplied to LED bulbs in a scale of 0-255. Additionally, a Raspberry Pi computer board on which backend software was implemented was connected via a Serial USB cable to the Arduino with a design responsibility of passing machine instructions to the Arduino for light dimmer control commands.
2) Backend Sofware Development: In this stage, the Raspberry Pi's Python Virtual Environment and Google Cloud Firebase Firestore Database were setup, construced, and implemented. The Raspberry Pi would run a Python script on launch intended to check for any data changes in the Google Cloud environment (data changes meaning any new light bulb intensities from eth user). Once a change is made in the cloud, the Raspberry Pi would fetch this information through Firebase Firestore API service and pass the numerical quantity to the Arduino. Meanwhile, the Firestore and Google Cloud infrastructure was also set up to have Document-Oriented database where each light being controlled would have a single numerical quantity associated with it from 0-100 (brightness values).
3) UI/Web Application: The UI was developed using Angular 4+, Typescript, and Bootsrap CSS. A simple layout with a control panel and intensity slider for each light bulb was preferred by participants involved in the product experience test. The major backend feature of the application is the use of the Firebase Firestore API to send HTTP requests to the Google Cloud. Numerical values from user responses were sent as HTTP POST requests to update the brightness value of each light bulb/key in the document-oriented database.
